Hi everyone, my name
is Tina Tarquinio ,
and I am a director
on the IBM Z Team.
Today, I want to talk
to you about one of
my favorite parts of
the IBM Z system,
and that's it's redundancy and
availability characteristics.
In today's world, workloads
are getting stronger
and stronger,
and we require more
and more of them,
and we're seeing bigger and
more dense memory available.
So we introduced over
10 years ago something
called RAIM memory,
Redundant Array of
Independent Memory.
This is one of the key
characteristics of what makes
a system so available
and so reliable.
So as you know, I
talked about workloads,
things like in transaction
analytics are becoming
more and more prevalent,
and we're increasing
the size of memory.
So when IBM z14,
you can have up to 32
terabytes of memory.
So what is RAIM memory?
As I said, we introduced
it with IBM z196,
and it is the key characteristics
of our availability.
So if you can imagine
a processor unit,
every processor unit
has one memory unit,
and within the memory
unit is five DIMMs,
and up to one DIMM is set
aside for redundant memory.
That means you can
lose a channel,
and you can lose an entire DIMM,
and still have
complete availability
of your memory subsystem.
Like I said, this was introduced
with IBM z196 in 2010,
and every server that's come out
after will include
this RAIM memory.
Now what happens if
you don't have this?
That means in the middle of
a transaction if you
have a memory error,
data is lost, that's not good.
Especially when we have qualities
of service and service
agreements with our clients,
that they expect
100 percent availability.
In fact, that is what the Z
and IBM Z stands for,
zero downtime, that
includes the server,
and all of the
subsystems within it.
This is just one aspect of
how we've built availability and
reliability into every subsystem
of the IBM mainframe,
that includes the memory
like I talked about,
but also the I/O and
the processing units.
So when I brag about
the mainframe and
what a great server it is,
this is the main reason I like
to start with our clients.